Dear teacher, I'm writing to you because at the end of the year and the beginning of the
year, people often gather together,
but they often sit around drinking.
After drinking, they go home, and sometimes
husbands and wives argue, and then get
drunk. I have a question related
to this issue: It's almost Tet (Vietnamese New Year), and during
Tet, everyone should be happy and drink.
But when my husband comes home drunk with his
friends, sometimes I'm sitting at a
table with him, watching everyone drinking and going up and
down, and I can't do anything.
Sometimes I have to drive him home. I
see that it's not just my husband who
is forced to drink like this; it's like this in society now.
Those who know how to drink are
toasted, and those who don't are forced to drink until they're all gone. I hope you can offer a
solution to this situation of forced drinking.
There's a paradox:
when your child is drunk,
you suffer greatly, but you also force
others to get drunk, saying, "If
you don't know how to drink, then you're a
woman." But if your child gets drunk,
you suffer even more. That's why Buddha
taught...  Living beings sow their own seeds and reap their own consequences.
So, we
have to warn those relationships
where drinking might occur beforehand. Of course,
whether they can actually apply this advice is very
difficult. The difficulty lies in
this: if someone says
something that others won't accept, if
they don't understand morality,
they won't accept it. Then you have to
resort to this. For example, your husband
might say, "I
just had a check-up, and my condition is
n't good. Drinking too much
will shorten my lifespan. Drinking too much alcohol
weakens my liver; it will be
damaged." That statement is completely accurate. Because
it will be damaged. I'm not saying it's damaged,
I'm saying it will be damaged, so I ca
n't stop. I care about
my life a little. That's how friends can
communicate with each other.
But what about business relationships?
Business
relationships are very difficult to refuse when it comes to
drinking. Before you
go drinking, you should also...  What's the trick to
drinking water or something else
to help you avoid getting drunk? If you drink beforehand, you'll have to
drink, and then when
you sit down at the table, you should
have some excuses like, "Oh my god,
they're so hungry, let me eat a few bowls of rice first,
okay?" That means we have to learn how to
live near bad people. The means
are like this, or to put it another way, for
example, "Oh, sorry gentlemen, I'm
drinking slowly today. I have to go home and
meet my parents, and I have an appointment.
Otherwise, when I get home and go to bed, everything will be ruined."
That means I have to go to sleep and won't be able to get
anything done, and everything will be ruined. That
means I make up many excuses.
Because every day I interact with a
different person. And if I work at the same
company, I'll also tell
you that my alcohol tolerance is only
so much. Actually, Ms. Yen has a
friend, a friend she calls her son.
He goes to work and has to drink alcohol all day,
and he's said so many times, "
Mom, I can't..."  Going to work
and having to entertain clients and drink alcohol like
this is really hard for me. I've
wanted to quit so many times, but eventually I had a
valid reason. She quit her
job, not for any other reason, but because she
had to drink
so much alcohol because she was forced to. So when
she quit, I think that's
a blessing. Therefore,
any friend who forces you to
drink alcohol is a bad friend who
harms your health and destroys your
family's happiness. You
should stay away from
such friends and know how to protect yourself.
So you should have
knowledge and be able to talk to each other like that. As for me, I
have an
experience from before I
knew about Buddhism. One
day, my husband went drinking with his
friends. I'll tell you a funny story,
but it happened in
my family. At that time,
my eldest child, I think she was four or
five years old, came home drunk.  He was
completely drunk, then he threw up in the house,
then
in the kitchen, and then he threw up again in the kitchen. After throwing up, he
immediately started doing the deed. That means he was really drunk. So
she took two basins and placed them over the
two places where he'd thrown up. She
told her daughter, "Let's pull him out so we can
put him on the
bed." So she pulled and pulled, and her husband was
heavy. Even though her husband was small,
compared to her strength, it was still difficult. She kept pulling and
pulling until they finally got him to the
bed. Then her husband slept for a while. The next
morning, she woke up and said, "Okay, I don't
interfere with whether you drink or not,
but I don't have enough
strength. First, next time you come home
and fall somewhere, I'll cover
you with a blanket and let you sleep there. And whatever you've made,
you have to clean it up yourself because
it smells awful. So, if
you throw up yourself, you can
clean it up yourself, okay? I can't help you with
this. I can't say my wife is
unfaithful."  He told his wife that
there's no such thing
as a "loyalty" or "compassion" that involves causing suffering to
others. Therefore, the only way is to work
together to build a
happy life, not
to help each other
drink alcohol and harm each other's health. So, from
then on, he learned his lesson. So, if he
goes
drinking with his wife and she sees him
too drunk, she should just ask the owner if she can
sleep there. Even if the owner scolds or
curses, she should just say, "Okay,
let him sleep here. I
have no other choice now, he's so drunk."
Then, the restaurant owner
should tell customers not to drink too much. If he gets
this drunk, then let him
sleep here. I don't know where to take him home. After
a few times like that, the husband was terrified.
It's because you have to use
kindness to transform a wicked person.
People never leave their wives because of
reasons like, "I'm drunk and my wife wo
n't come home," or "I'm drunk and
my wife won't come home."  My husband's drunkenness is gone.
No one leaves their wife for that reason. The purpose of
your actions, the
intention behind them, is to
help them abandon this evil behavior. If you
do everything you can to prevent your
husband from drinking,
the karmic consequences of
your actions will lead to happiness.
Many people say that if you don't let your husband drink,
he'll leave you, but that
's because the good karma
in your heart will arise,
preventing you from leaving your husband. Only
if your husband is extremely evil will
you have to leave him, so rest
assured. That's the way I'm
guiding you. But in
reality, you should cultivate the karma. If you
have a husband like that, you should cultivate
the karma of not encouraging
people to do bad things that
cause others suffering.
You should use that merit to
transform your karma.  Regarding karma,
your husband will listen to you and change his karma, which will
create a new opportunity for him
to transform this drunken karma.
Yes, thank you, ma'am.
Oh
[music]